Release notes 1.4.0 (#245)
NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver: release_notes/nrf_802154_1.4.0.md

# nRF IEEE 802.15.4 radio driver 1.4.0 release notes

Release date: 2019-06-07

> This release provides multiple minor updates. The most important are the new pseudo-random number generator abstraction layer and the new Front-End Module abstraction layer that are intended to ease porting of the driver to RTOSes. Moreover, the release contains robust delayed transmission and delayed reception operations thanks to many fixes in this area.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This release provides multiple minor updates. The most significant ones are the new pseudo-random number generator abstraction layer and the new Front End Module abstraction layer that are intended to ease porting of the driver to RTOSes. Moreover, thanks to many fixes in this area, the release contains robust delayed transmission and delayed reception operations.
```

> ## Update guide:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Migration guide:
```

or

```suggestion
## Upgrade instructions:
```

> The 1.4.0 release provides new files that should be added to the build system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release 1.4.0 provides new files that must be added to the build system:
```

* src/platform/random/nrf_802154_random_stdlib.c - an example implementation of the pseudo-random number abstraction layer that uses the `rand()` function from the standard library.

> * src/fal/nrf_802154_fal.c - an initial implementation of the Front-End Module abstraction layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* src/fal/nrf_802154_fal.c - an initial implementation of the Front End Module abstraction layer.
```

> Because of optimizations one source file is deleted and should be removed from the build system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Due to some optimizations, one source file is deleted and must be removed from the build system:
```

* src/nrf_802154_ack_pending_bit.c

## New features:
* Created a pseudo-random number generator abstraction layer in the platform directory. ([PR #238](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/238))

> * Implemented a new Front-End Module Abstraction Layer (FAL) component. ([PR #224](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/224))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Implemented a new Front End Module Abstraction Layer (FAL) component. ([PR #224](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/224))
```

> * Added the TX power setting to the continuous carrier operation. ([PR #229](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/229))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added a TX power setting to the continuous carrier operation. ([PR #229](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/229))
```

> * Provided an implementation of the `assert()` function for ARMCC compiler to ease debugging process. ([PR #195](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/195))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provided an implementation of the `assert()` function for the ARMCC compiler to facilitate the debugging process. ([PR #195](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/195))
```

> * Added the BKPT instruction to the assert handlers. ([PR #236](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/236))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Added a BKPT instruction to the assert handlers. ([PR #236](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/236))
```

* Replaced the internal RADIO HAL (`nrf_radio.h`) implementation with the implementation provided by the [nrfx](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nrfx) project. ([PR #221](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/221), [PR #228](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/228))

## Bug fixes:
* A request to transit to the RX state while the core already is in the RX state is correctly notified to the requester. ([PR #205](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/205))

> * After the delayed transmission or the delayed reception, the driver enters the RX state regardless result of the delayed operation. ([PR #208](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/208), [PR #209](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/209))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After a delayed transmission or a delayed reception, the driver enters the RX state regardless of the result of the delayed operation. ([PR #208](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/208), [PR #209](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/209))
```

* The delayed reception timeout handler preempted by the RADIO ISR handler does not lead to the undefined module state. ([PR #233](https:////github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/233))
* A single delayed reception triggers just one notification indicating the end of the procedure. ([PR #242](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/242))

> * The driver core processes notification from the radio scheduler regardless the state of the core what makes delayed operations robust. ([PR #244](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/244))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The driver core processes notifications from the radio scheduler regardless of the the state of the core. This makes delayed operations robust. ([PR #244](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/244))
```

* Simplified the lp_timer handling when adding a timer that should fire immediately. ([PR #214](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/214))
* Update of the ACK Information Elements for an already registered address is possible. ([PR #241](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/241))
* Pending bits in the ACK frames are handled by the `ack_data` module like the Information Elements. ([PR #243](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/243))

> * The initialization of the FEM module configures only these peripherals that are used by the module in the given run-time configuration. ([PR #216](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/216))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The initialization of the FEM module configures only these peripherals that are used by the module in the given runtime configuration. ([PR #216](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/216))
```

* The types of the variables holding LQI values are unified to `uint8_t`. ([PR #210](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/210))

> * The driver built without compier optimizations does not hang during the initialization procedure. ([PR #231](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/231))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The driver built without compiler optimizations does not hang during the initialization procedure. ([PR #231](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/231))
```

> * Corrected names of variables storing 802.15.4 frames. ([PR #234](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/234))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Corrected the names of variables storing 802.15.4 frames. ([PR #234](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/234))
```

* Removed implicit conversions of the integer signedness in the ACK generator module. ([PR #211](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/211))
* Added missing subdirectories to the paths of the included header files. ([PR #212](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/212))
* Removed copies of dependencies from the repository. ([PR #213](https://github.com/NordicSemiconductor/nRF-IEEE-802.15.4-radio-driver/pull/213))

## Limitations:
* Number of supported peers for the Auto Pending Bit feature is limited to 127.
* In multiprotocol configuration (SoftDevice RAAL), the application cannot use IRQ priority levels 2 and 3.

> * The delayed operations do not detect delays caused by the ISR latency. The ISR latency may cause too late delayed transmission and too short reception window for the delayed reception operation.

Reviewer 2: Add a suggestion how to minimize this limitation.

Author: Added

> * The delayed operations do not detect delays caused by the ISR latency. The ISR latency may cause too late delayed transmission and too short reception window for the delayed reception operation. To avoid such problems it is recommended to minimize the ISR latency of the RTC instance that is used by the lp_timer module (RTC2 by default).

Reviewer: I have an impression that we reworked this point in some other review? Not sure.

```suggestion
* The delayed operations do not detect delays caused by the ISR latency. Because of the ISR latency, the delayed transmission might be delayed for too long, and the resulting reception window might be too short for the delayed transmission operation. To avoid such problems, it is recommended to minimize the ISR latency of the RTC instance that is used by the lp_timer module (RTC2 by default).
```

Author: What I would like to emphasize here is that ISR latency may result in two problems:
1. transmission is delayed and the frame is transmitted later than requested
2. reception window is shorter than requested
The rephrased version you suggested describes the 1st problem in details, but it loses the 2nd problem. Could we add it again to the description?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The delayed operations do not detect delays caused by the ISR latency. Because of the ISR latency, the delayed transmission might be delayed for too long, or the reception window might be shorter than requested for the delayed transmission operation. To avoid such problems, it is recommended to minimize the ISR latency of the RTC instance that is used by the lp_timer module (RTC2 by default).
```
Something along these lines? My understanding was that the shorter window is a direct effect of the increased delay, and that it is essentially one problem.
